
In 2009, Oregon went into their Halloween night contest against the USC Trojans on the verge of a full recovery from September’s debacle in Boise. Having beaten USC at Autzen in 2007 and the Trojans carrying a previous Pac-10 loss into the game, it was a chance for the Ducks to put a stranglehold on the conference and end USC’s reign of power.
After battling to a 17-14 lead at halftime, Oregon swept the leg in the third quarter when they outscored the Trojans 17-3 – including two unanswered touchdowns to close the period. The fourth quarter was played out as a mere formality and “Fright Night” was realized for USC, falling 47-20 and all but assured of finishing behind the Ducks in the conference race.
The game also served as a national coming-out party for freshman running back LaMichael James as he rushed for 183 yards and a touchdown in front of a prime-time audience for the first time in his career.
    
First half highlights.
Second half highlights.
The 2011 game between the two Pac-12 powerhouses had a different storyline as USC was ineligible for post-season play and therefore the conference title. However, #4 Oregon had an opportunity to take prime position in the BCS race after Iowa State’s shocking upset of the #3 ranked Oklahoma State Cowboys the night before.
The Ducks were shaky from the start against USC and fell behind by 24 points early in the second half. Oregon mounted a frantic comeback that was ignited by a 96 yard kickoff return by De’Anthony Thomas – USC’s star recruit up until the last week of the 2011-2012 recruiting cycle.
A botched exchange between Trojan quarterback Matt Barkley and running back Marc Tyler gave the Ducks a chance for a storybook ending, but Alejandro Maldonado’s kick went wide and USC made a triumphant return to the forefront of college football with the 38-35 upset.
    
Game highlights.
Produced by: Will Rubin/ Sreang “C” Hok
Related topics: De'Anthony Thomas, LaMichael James, Matt Barkley, oregon ducks, Oregon Football, USC Trojans
