
(Alex McDougall/Oregon Daily Emerald)
Editor’s note: In the final 50 days before Chip Kelly and the Ducks return to the field to defend their status as Pac-12 Champions, the Emerald sports desk will take a look back at one Oregon alum each day whose jersey number corresponds to the amount of days left before the season opener against Arkansas State.
Terrell Turner came to Oregon in 2007 as a linebacker out of California known for his ferocity on the field, including a staggering 153 tackles during his senior season. Not only did Turner make an impact on the field during Oregon’s rise to prominence, he left Eugene known as much for his wit and personality off the field as his success on it.
Upon arriving in Eugene, Turner made the switch to defensive end and through 2009, was a key part of the defensive line rotation. His breakout season came in 2010 when he shared the team’s Most Improved Player award. While his season included highlights such as his only career interception and a career-best seven tackles and 1.5 sacks against Arizona State, some of his best work came during his internship at KEZI – a local television broadcast station.
Turner worked with regional sports director Bryan Salmond to produce a weekly segment entitled “Turner Time” during the 2010 season where he interviewed players and coaches with often humorous results. In one segment featuring Head Coach Chip Kelly, the following exchange ensued:
Turner: “We beat up on the offense a lot as defensive players. How has it been adapting to what we do to y’all?”
Kelly: “What are you talking about?”
“He’s really funny,” former Oregon lineman Brandon Hanna said. “He’s really outgoing, he’s got a great sense of humor — I could see him being on TV, definitely.”
Back on the field in 2011, Turner earned All-Pac-12 Honorable Mention accolades as well as recognition as the team’s top defensive lineman. Turner ended his Oregon career with three Pac-12 titles and never lost to rivals Oregon State and Washington, a feat not accomplished by any prior senior class.
Related topics: Brandon Hanna, Chip Kelly, KEZI, Oregon Football, Terrell Turner
