
Aaron Fentress and the Oregonian reported earlier this morning that redshirt freshman Marcus Mariota has beaten out sophomore Bryan Bennett to helm Oregon’s high-tempo offense when the Ducks face Arkansas State on September 1, and now it appears to be official.
Oregon head coach Chip Kelly has named redshirt freshman Marcus Mariota as the Ducks’ new starting quarterback #GoDucks
— Andy McNamara (@McNamaraUO) August 24, 2012
 
Mariota – signed in 2011 as a three-star recruit out of Honolulu, Hawaii – sat out the 2011 season but was on the travel squad as the third string quarterback behind Bennett and starter Darron Thomas. A strong spring showing began speculation that he could challenge Bennett for the starting role and he continued his strong showing through fall camp.
Mariota will be the first freshman quarterback to start the opening game for Oregon since Danny O’Neil in 1991 did so against Washington State.
For more information on the Duck’s new gunslinger, check out former Sports Editor Patrick Malee’s profile in DuckSeason Magazine.
Twitter reaction:
@jordanwhitley @csnnw he will possibly be the best qb to ever play at Oregon! He’s the real deal
— LaMichael James (@LaMichaelJames) August 24, 2012
 
I see Marcus Mariota as a clear upgrade over Darron Thomas. It might take him a couple games to get salty, but he’ll be a better player.
Hear Oregon QB Marcus Mariota (RS frosh) is the REAL deal. Warning: Only RS frosh QB I can think led team to NC was Bernie Kozar. Others?
— Chris Dufresne (@DufresneLATimes) August 24, 2012
 
— Chris Huston (@HeismanPundit) August 24, 2012
 
Oregon’s QB Marcus Mariota may be the dark horse as the nation’s most exciting player to watch this year #QuackQuack
— Mike Winans (@Mwinans15) August 24, 2012
 
If Chip Kelly chose Mariota, then I choose Mariota as well! #GoDucks
— Matt Wunderlin (@MattWunderlin) August 24, 2012
2012 Oregon spring game highlights.
    
Related topics: Bryan Bennett, Marcus Mariota, oregon ducks, Oregon Football
