
Prior to the 2012 U.S. Open in San Francisco, University of Oregon golf coach Casey Martin had been out of the professional golf spotlight for a number of years, focusing instead on the task of building the UO golf program into a national contender. The thought of competing on a national stage never ebbed away completely, however, and when the opportunity to return arose, Martin’s competitive drive shone through.
“I’ve been playing pretty well just when I have played — I haven’t played much — but when I’ve been working on my game, it’s been pretty good,” Martin said. “It worked out that the qualifiers were pretty convenient (at the club where I had success in 1998) and the stars kind of aligned, and I decided to go for it.”
As he began the qualifying process, few people payed much attention to the former local and Stanford star’s journey back to the US Open  and the Olympic Club, where he made national headlines in 1998 after the U.S. Supreme Court awarded him the right to compete using a golf cart over the frantic protests of the PGA Tour.
After making it through the first, local stage of the qualifying process, both he and members of the golf media began to believe that something special might be happening in Eugene.
“I was playing well, and I was leading after the first round, and then I got off to a really hot start, so I knew I had to be in the mix,” he said. “Those competitive juices come flowing back, and you realize you’re in the hunt and you want it, so that was a fun experience for me.”
***
Day 1
After the infamous first six holes – ones Martin referred to as “very intimidating” on Monday – the UO golf coach birdied the treacherous par-4 seventh and persevered through some missed opportunities on the back-9 to shoot a 4-over 74. In comparison, former champion Phil Mickelson shot 76, and world number-one Luke Donald carded a dismal 79 at the Olympic Club in San Francisco.
“I haven’t had time to really think about that; I’m very happy about that, obviously,” Martin said of his standing among the world’s best. “The tournament’s not over, and they’re so good, they will come back … My goal is just to relax somehow out there and be able to hit shots like I think I’m capable of and see what happens.”
As he worked his way around the course Thursday, he was followed by yells of “Go Casey!” or “Go Ducks” off of nearly every tee box and green, along with a hoard of friends and family who made the trip to the Bay Area to cheer him on.
Day 2
In the second round, Martin had another day of massive drives and solid ball-striking, but he couldn’t get many putts outside of eight feet to fall for the second-straight day.
“I hit a lot of putts that looked good,” Martin said. “The speed didn’t quite match, and they just … I was on the edges for a lot of 20, 30 footers and never really got one to drop, and I really needed a couple to go in.”
Martin’s performance at the U.S. Open, while not enough to advance to weekend play, was better than some of the world’s best players. World-number-one Luke Donald finished his San Francisco experience at +11, and young star Rory McIlroy finished one worse than Martin’s score.
Martin was also hopeful that his appearance and performance at the Olympic Club would bolster his recruiting efforts for the UO golf team, though he wasn’t so sure, remarking:
“We’ll see. The rain (in Eugene) hurts the recruiting.”

