
From California up to Washington, over to Pennsylvania and down to Georgia, the Olympic Trials attracted approximately 20,000 out-of-area visitors this week to watch the nation’s best athletes compete for a chance to represent the U.S. at the 2012 Olympic Games. The general tone from out-of-town guests was excitement and awe that the University of Oregon and City of Eugene were able to put on such a high-profile event so smoothly.
“It’s a very laid-back and relaxing place to visit,” said Kevin Boddie, a spectator from Dayton, Ohio. “I love the area. Every time I come here, I have a great experience.”
Boddie explained that he was looking forward to see the entire town done up in Olympic fashion to welcome its guests from all over. He said that the transformation of Hayward Field from how it originally looked to now is “unbelievable, and it’s a great place to have such a huge track meet.
“The Trials is like the icing on the cake,” he said. “I’ve seen Hayward before, but with all the pageantry, it makes it that much nicer. It’s an opportunity to see world-class athletes perform and get up-close and personal with them.”
He said his most memorable experience of the Trials was when he got to meet and chat with Marquise Goodwin, who qualified for the Olympics last Sunday with a jump of 8.33 meters.
Different spectators had various answers to their most memorable experience in Hayward Field, with responses ranging from watching Ashton Eaton set a decathlon world record, to seeing Allyson Felix, Carmelita Jeter, and Sonya Richards-Ross all qualify in the 200-meter dash.
Lieri Wyatt, a spectator from Riverside, Calif., said that her most memorable moment was watching her son — Reginald Wyatt — compete in the 400-meter hurdles. She said she has thoroughly enjoyed her time in TrackTown USA, despite the rain.
“It’s been wonderful, but the weather has not been cooperating,” Wyatt said. “I’ve never experienced beaming hot sun, followed by pouring down rain.”
Regardless of the weather, she said she is impressed with both the town and the venue.
“Eugene is a beautiful place to be,” she said. “The facilities here are wonderful; you can see the track from anywhere that you sit, and everything is ready to go, rain or shine.”
Art Haywood — a spectator from Cheltenham, Penn. — said that since his arrival in Eugene early this week, he has been met with kind regard by everyone, from local Eugenians to spectators from other parts of the country.
“I’ve really enjoyed it,” Haywood said. “I love the competition, and the people have been extremely friendly to me and my wife. We’ve had a great time here.”
Related topics: Fans, Olympic Trials, Spectators, TrackTown 12, USA Track and Field Olympic Trials
