
Editor’s note: In the final 50 days before Chip Kelly and the Ducks return to the field to defend their status as Pac-12 Champions, the Emerald sports desk will take a look back at one Oregon alum each day whose jersey number corresponds to the amount of days left before the season opener against Arkansas State.
A defensive back out of Murrieta, Calif., Talmadge Jackson III was a force of steady production on the field from 2007 to 2010 for the Oregon defense while providing big plays in key moments during his tenure.
Jackson played in a total of 52 games during his Oregon career – that’s a perfect score for those of you keeping track at home – and was one of only two players on the team to be on the field for more than 1,000 plays during the course of the 2009 season.
That season was also Jackson’s best as he registered 40 tackles and four interceptions – including one returned for a touchdown (4:45 mark) against UCLA and a lunging grab in the back of the end zone (6:25 mark) against Arizona to set up the Ducks’ game-tying drive in Tucson. Jackson had to step up in 2009 to make up for the loss of defensive backs Walter Thurmond III and Willie Glasper due to injury and drew praise for his efforts from safety T.J. Ward.
“When our numbers get called, you have to be ready to play,” Ward said. “If your name is called, you have to be ready to go in and make some plays. Talmadge has stepped up. Talmadge is a veteran. He played as a true freshman. He’s a veteran and it’s expected, but he’s a good player.”
Jackson anchored the defensive backfield in 2010 as junior Anthony Gildon battled with other players (including eventual star Cliff Harris) at the other corner position. Jackson’s biggest moment came in the Civil War game when he nearly took a Ryan Katz interception back for a touchdown (2:40 mark), turning the momentum in Oregon’s favor.
After finishing his career in Eugene, Jackson moved on to the NFL, where he’s been on both the Baltimore Ravens’ and Jacksonville Jaguars’ roster without seeing regular-season action.
Related topics: Cliff Harris, oregon ducks, Oregon Football, T.J. Ward, Talmadge Jackson
