
ASUO Summer Senate was left with even less money Wednesday after the University of Oregon’s Sustainability Center made a request for $3,000.
This money would be put towards an October conference in Los Angeles where students would be discussing how to get more campus involvement at the UO during Earth Day. The experience from the presentation as well as the conference would allow the Sustainability Center to gather information on how to be more effective and efficient as well as offer key tips on reaching out to students who may not know what the center does.
With $3,000, the center could take four students to this conference, including ASUO Sen. Molly Bacon.
“Having four students go as opposed to just me or Molly lets us get together and collaborate and bounce ideas off each other,” the center’s presenter said.

To save money, the group got reservations through the conference that can hold hotel rooms for $100 per night and are taking a conference bus that is departing off from Seattle, which will stop in Eugene on its way south.
Summer Senate President Matthew Miyamoto recommended that the senate fund the center with $600 — the total registration cost for the conference — but have the center come back during fall term to request the additional funds since the summer surplus funds would not be able to sustain a $3,000 request.
“This is definitely an extremely valid request … Speaking from my personal perspective, if this were to come before senate, I would say ‘Yes,’” Miyamoto said.
Sen. Ian Needham agreed with Miyamoto’s way of solving the issue and passed the motion of granting $600 to the Sustainability Center.
“If we don’t have money, do we have a meeting?” Needham asked, which prompted laughter from the rest of the body. “Procedurally speaking!” he then clarified.
Additional excitement came when ASUO President Laura Hinman introduced an incoming freshman intern who is working with her and ASUO Vice President Nick McCain to create a leadership minor at the University.
This Leadership minor may include the ASUO internship class that has routinely caused problems in the past. While this course teaches students how to become effective leaders and learn campaign strategies, the Oregon Student Association has been said to have too much influence on the course because it had been taught by a OSA representative.
While the OSA focuses on issues such as tuition, financial aid and student rights, some past members of the internship class felt alienated by the OSA representative if their views did not line up with the OSA.
Due to this perceived conflict of interest, Hinman and her executive team do not feel comfortable allowing the course to continue being instructed by a OSA representative. Therefore, she revealed for the first time publicly on Wednesday that this representative will not longer will be teaching the class.
Instead it will be “someone that you know very well,” she mentioned when presenting to the senate.
Related topics: Ian Needham, Laura Hinman, Matthew Miyamoto, Molly Bacon, Nick McCain, Oregon Student Association, Sustainability Center
