
“Green” products and buildings have become very popular in the last few years in attempts to help save the environment and ozone layer. The University of Oregon joined in on those efforts two years ago and recently has shown progress in making a greenhouse gas-free campus.
Some years back, the Climate Action Plan was adopted by the UO in attempt to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions that are produced. Two years ago, the Oregon Model for Sustainable Development was brought into effect. This development was designed to create a net-zero increase of greenhouse gas and produce 35 percent greater energy savings.
“Our emissions have declined for three years in a row,” said Steve Mital, the director of sustainability.
The model is designed mostly to finance all the projects that will be underway as well as financing the planned growth of the program. Additionally, the model will require that new developments achieve state-of-the-art energy performance levels.
Along with it, the UO also joined with 32 leading institutions for the Billion Dollar Green Challenge. By joining, the UO was able to create a $1 million loan that will help to pay for the upgrades that the development requires the UO to make.
The UO also created the Oregon Leadership in Sustainability certificate program — as well as a few similar programs — that will teach students about greener energy options and help to serve the sustainability needs of three cities within Oregon.
“We’re increasing our co-curricular and curricular activity planning to support training,” Mital said.
The UO currently has several projects that are helping bring down the emission rate.
“We recently changed out the boilers,” he said. “We’re in the middle of a major lighting change in the hallways (all over campus).”
All current the T12 fluorescent light tubes will be replaced with T8 tubes. What this means is that switching out these bulbs alone will save $98,000 and 1.5 kilowatt hours of electricity per year.
Along with these projects, the UO will also be installing a dashboard that will read the levels of emissions that is produced. A council will be created to advise senior administrators to ensure that the best decisions for the future of the program.
“We have aggressive constructive planning,” Mital said.
Related topics: Climate Plan, emissions, UO
