
Photos from the first day of the Women Heptathlon for 2012 Olympic Trials. 

.ps-caption { line-height: 18px; font-size: 14px; padding: 10px; background:#EEE; border: 1px solid #CCC; }
.ps-image { margin-bottom: 40px; width: 980px; }
.ps-image img {display: block; margin: 0 auto; }


Hyleas Fountain wins the heptathlon 100-meter hurdles on Friday, June 29, 2012 at Hayward Field in Eugene. Fountain currently leads after one day of competition. (Eugene Johnson/Oregon Daily Emerald)Betty Wade talks to her coach after she misses the bar during the women's heptathlon high jump. Wade finished fourth, which brought her total score to 2,009 points. (Tess Freeman/Oregon Daily Emerald)Bettie Wade finishes the heptathlon 100-meter hurdles on Friday, June 29. Wade, a favorite, currently sits in tenth place after the first event. (Jeff Matarrese/Oregon Daily Emerald)(From right to left) Ryan Krais follows Sharon Day and Bettie Wade over the hurdles in the first event of the women's heptathlon. (Tess Freeman/Oregon Daily Emerald)Barbara Nwaba clears the bar in the high jump portion of the heptathlon on Friday, June 29, 2012 at the U.S. Olympic Team Trials at Hayward Field. (Rockne Andrew Roll/Oregon Daily Emerald)Allison Reaser of San Diego State University charges for the finish line in the 100-meter hurdles portion of the heptathlon on Friday, June 29, 2012 at the U.S. Olympic Team Trials at Hayward Field. (Rockne Andrew Roll/Oregon Daily Emerald)Yvette Lewis competes in the heptathlon high jump on Friday, June 29 at Hayward Field. (Jeff Matarrese/Oregon Daily Emerald)Sharon Day (left) high fives Barbara Nwaba after Nwaba clears the 1.87 meter mark in the women's heptathlon. (Tess Freeman/Oregon Daily Emerald)Sharon Day clears the bar in the heptathlon high jump on Friday, June 29, 2012 at Hayward Field in Eugene. Day is in second place after the first day of competition. (Eugene Johnson/Oregon Daily Emerald)Barbara Nwaba of University of California at Santa Barbra, who tied for first in the high jump with a height of 1.87 meters, clears the bar at the U.S. Olympic Trials. (Nate Barrett/Oregon Daily Emerald)Bettie Wade hits the bar in her last attempt at the women's heptathlon high jump. She finished fourth in the women's high jump. (Tess Freeman/Oregon Daily Emerald)The heptathlon ends the first day of competition with the 200-meters. Hyleas Fountain (second from the left) is in first-place with 3,948 points. (Eugene Johnson/Oregon Daily Emerald)Chantae McMillan finishes first in her heat in the heptathlon 200-meter dash on Friday, June 29, 2012. McMillan currently stands in third place overall with 3,762 points. (Jeff Matarrese/Oregon Daily Emerald)Aisha Adams releases her throw in the shot put portion of the heptathlon on Friday, June 29, 2012 at the U.S. Olympic Team Trials at Hayward Field. (Rockne Andrew Roll/Oregon Daily Emerald)Jessica Flax gets ready to throw in the shot put portion of the heptathlon on Friday, June 29, 2012 at the U.S. Olympic Team Trials at Hayward Field. (Rockne Andrew Roll/Oregon Daily Emerald)
Related topics: Heptathlon, London 2012 Olympics, Olympic Trials
