
I have not read the original short story Phillip K. Dick wrote that “Total Recall” was adapted from (“We Can Remember It For You Wholesale”). I expected the new remake of “Total Recall” to be horrible. In my opinion, there was only one man that can “get his ass to Mars,” and he is Arnold Schwarzenegger. It turns out I was right … about the Mars part that is. This new “Total Recall” has nothing to do with Mars.
I was wrong in thinking it was going to be horrible. It just wasn’t all that good.
The movie tried to do a few things new and kept a few of the old things — as far as character and story are concerned. For a remake (or a prequel for that matter) things have to be new enough to be novel and yet give some fan service to the old to provide connection to the original film to be successful. It’s a delicate edge to tread, and my heart goes out to those who attempt a Herculean task like adaptation or prequel/remake production (with a few notable exceptions).
Colin Farrell plays the lead role of Doug Quaid/ Carl Hauser (old). After he goes to Rekall, a shady company that will insert memories for your entertainment, they “pop his memory cap” (old) and people start accusing him of being a spy who plays both sides of a corporate-government rebellion as an elite covert operative (old). When he gets home after an attempt by thugs to kill him, he is attacked by his wife who is really not his wife (old) and gets embroiled deeper in the plot after fighting his way out of the sticky situation he gets in (old). And hey, you do get to see the three-boobied hooker (old), and I was sure it would be covered up in observance of the film’s PG-13 rating. But, nope!
It’s not on Mars but relegated strictly to Earth (new). Some characters are amalgamated into one (Richter, Cohagen’s angry thug played by Micheal Ironside in the original is merged with Quaid’s wife in the writing process just making her more badass (new)), some characters are dropped completely (new) and there are no more mutants since Mars is out of the picture, and psychic powers are non-existent in the film. To be honest, I was a little bummed there was no “Quato” dude coming out of another dude’s chest (definitely new).
The theme of the film is clear as day and is introduced effectively in the second act. I can’t remember the Schwarzenegger film having much of a theme other than being a sci-fi action flick. But it did. In fact, they have the same theme. The new one just communicates it better. But with far less humor, and it loses out in that regard.
Be that as it may, there was very little else noticeably new in this remake. Some scenes felt as though they were a complete copy of the original film’s scenes. It’s almost a shame that Hollywood didn’t get a little riskier (as if remaking “Total Recall” isn’t risky enough) and deviate a little more from the original film.
All of the performances were a bit uninspired. The actors showed they had talent, knew what they were doing and were well directed in conveying the appropriate intensity and emotion. But, it all seemed so phoned in. The female lead and the main antagonist (Jessica Biel and Kate Beckinsale, respectively) were dressed similar, had similar hair color and were of a similar height with one and other. When they got into fight scenes with each other, I couldn’t usually tell who was winning with the camera spinning around like it did.
There was some serious “stormtrooper shooting” going on, in that the gun-toting thugs can’t seem to hit the broadside of a barn with a fully automatic weapon. Except one guy at the end. He shoots once and nails Jessica Biel in the shoulder. Then when everything blows up, it appears that the one proficient thug gets away! Go, go professional henchman! I honestly was emotionally involved in that part.
The pacing was acceptable, and there was never much of a lull between all of the action. The soundtrack was sufficiently full of tension and suspense with action. But none of it hits you over the head with greatness. This is fine. I mean, c’mon… this is a remake of “Total Recall.” But, a part of me yearns for more to this movie. Hell if I know how I would have fixed it.
The art direction was great, and I really enjoyed the future world created for this film. Buildings are stacked upon each other in rampant disarray at The Colony, with hovering cars and a shiny industrial metropolis being the backdrop of the more affluent part of the world.
Ultimately, Total Recall is not the sex and violence fest it was in Paul Verhoeven’s original film, and it doesn’t suffer for it. But it does seem like it was lacking in creativity and, dare I say it, “balls.” It didn’t really push any boundaries but stayed merely sufficient in all categories. I felt like I kinda’ wasted my time. But if you have some to waste, maybe read the original story instead. It’s probably better.
Final Grade: C- (almost D+, if not for the good action sequences)
 
Related topics: Colin Farrell, Jessica Biel, Kate Beckinsale, Total Recall review
