
Day 9 of the U.S. Olympic Trials started bright and early at 7:30 a.m. with the men’s 20,000-meter race walk, which saw 11 records broken.

.ps-caption { line-height: 18px; font-size: 14px; padding: 10px; background:#EEE; border: 1px solid #CCC; }
.ps-image { margin-bottom: 40px; width: 980px; }
.ps-image img {display: block; margin: 0 auto; }


Allyson Felix finishes first in the women's 200-meter dash final on Saturday, June 30, 2012 at the U.S. Olympic Trials at Hayward Field. Felix ran the third fastest time for an American in 21.69. (Turner Maxwell/Oregon Daily Emerald)Chaunte Lowe blows a kiss to the crowd after clearing 2.01 meters in the women's high jump final. Lowe will be leading the team in London. (Jeff Matarrese/Oregon Daily Emerald)Brigetta Barrett celebrates after clearing a personal best 2.01 meters in the women's high jump final on Saturday, June 30, 2012 at Hayward Field. (Jeff Matarrese/Oregon Daily Emerald)Dan Serianni participates in the men's 20,000-meter race walk. He placed fourth overall with a time of 1:32:16.26. (Daniel Freimark/Oregon Daily Emerald)Allyson Felix (second from left) crosses the line to win the women's 200-meter dash final at the U.S. Olympic Trials on Saturday, June 30. Felix, who finished with a time of 21.69, ran sixth fastest 200 meters in the world. (Jeff Matarrese/Oregon Daily Emerald)Ian Whatley competes in the men's 20-kilometer race walk on Saturday, June 30, 2012 at the U.S. Olympic Team Trials at Hayward Field. (Rockne Andrew Roll/Oregon Daily Emerald)Trevor Barron crosses the finish line to set a new American record in the men's 20-kilometer race walk on Saturday, June 30, 2012 at the U.S. Olympic Team Trials at Hayward Field. (Rockne Andrew Roll/Oregon Daily Emerald)Walkers participate in the men's 20000-meter race walk early Saturday morning. (Daniel Freimark/Oregon Daily Emerald)From left, Jason Richardson and David Payne compete in the semifinal round of the men's 110-meter hurdles on Saturday, June 30, 2012 at the U.S. Olympic Team Trials at Hayward Field. Richardson posted a time of 12.98 seconds, a personal best and the fastest time run by an American this year. (Rockne Andrew Roll/Oregon Daily Emerald)Jennifer Burke falls as she crosses the finish line in the women's 400-meter masters. (Turner Maxwell/Oregon Daily Emerald)Aries Merritt leaps a hurdle in the semifinal round of the men's 110-meter hurdles on Saturday, June 30, 2012 at the U.S. Olympic Team Trials at Hayward Field. (Rockne Andrew Roll/Oregon Daily Emerald)Racers prepare to run in the 110 meter hurdles at the U.S. Olympic Trials. (Nate Barrett/Oregon Daily Emerald)Jason Richardson (facing) celebrates after setting a personal record and breaking into the 12-second threshold in the semifinals of the men's 110-meter hurdles.(Nate Barrett/Oregon Daily Emerald)Special Olympics boys, 100-meter dash. (Eugene Johnson/Oregon Daily Emerald)Special Olympics girls, 100-meter dash. (Eugene Johnson/Oregon Daily Emerald)Competitors in the finals of the men's 110 meter hurdles cross the finish line. (Nate Barrett/Oregon Daily Emerald)Men's final in 110-meter hurdles on Saturday, June 30, 2012 at Hayward Field in Eugene.(Eugene Johnson/Oregon Daily Emerald)Brigetta Barrett celebrates her second place finish in women's high jump Saturday, June 30, 2012 at Hayward Field in Eugene. (Eugene Johnson/Oregon Daily Emerald)Brigetta Barrett celebrates her second place finish in women's high jump Saturday, June 30, 2012 at Hayward Field in Eugene. (Eugene Johnson/Oregon Daily Emerald)Omar Craddock runs through the pit after he fouls in the men's triple jump. Craddock placed fourth jumping a distance of 16.55 meters. (Tess Freeman/Oregon Daily Emerald)Chaunte Lowe hits the bar on her third attempt at the 2.04 meter mark. Lowe finished first in the women's high jump with a final height of 2.01 meters. (Tess Freeman/Oregon Daily Emerald)Eight runners compete in the men's 110 meter hurdles finals. (Tess Freeman/Oregon Daily Emerald)Jason Richardson takes his victory lap after finishing second in the men's 110 meter hurdles with a time of 12.98 seconds. (Tess Freeman/Oregon Daily Emerald)(From left to right) Jason Richardson, Aries Merritt, and Jeffrey Porter cross the finish line in the men's 110-meter hurdles. All three will represent the United States in London. (Tess Freeman/Oregon Daily Emerald)Allyson Felix celebrates after finishing first in the women's 200 meter dash with a time of 21.69 seconds. (Tess Freeman/Oregon Daily Emerald)Chaunte Lowe (right) performs a celebratory dance after a clearance in in the final of the women's high jump on Saturday, June 30, 2012 at the U.S. Olympic Team Trials at Hayward Field. (Rockne Andrew Roll/Oregon Daily Emerald)Chaunte Lowe and Brigetta Barrett hug Gabby Williams after she clears the 1.89 meter mark in the women's high jump. Williams broke the record for the highest jump for a high schooler.Brigetta Barrett performs a celebratory dance after a clearance in in the final of the women's high jump on Saturday, June 30, 2012 at the U.S. Olympic Team Trials at Hayward Field. (Rockne Andrew Roll/Oregon Daily Emerald)Nkosinza Balumbu jumps through the air in the finals of the men's triple jump at  the U.S. Olympic Trials. Balumbu finished 6th. (Nate Barrett/Oregon Daily Emerald)Omar Craddock, who placed fourth in the men's triple jump, lands in the sand pit at the U.S. Olympic Trials. (Nate Barrett/Oregon Daily Emerald)Alyson Felix is hugged by Nike owner and Oregon alumnus Phil Knight. (Nate Barrett/Oregon Daily Emerald)Chaunte Lowe leaps into her attempt in the final of the women's high jump on Saturday, June 30, 2012 at the U.S. Olympic Team Trials at Hayward Field. (Rockne Andrew Roll/Oregon Daily Emerald)Alyson Felix finishes her victory lap after placing first in the finals of the women's 200-meter dash at the U.S. Olympic Trials. (Nate Barrett/Oregon Daily Emerald)Michael Sullivan, falls in the men's 200-meter masters invitational at the U.S. Olympic Trials.  (Nate Barrett/Oregon Daily Emerald)Gabrielle Williams (facing away) is hugged by fellow competitors after setting the American high school record in the finals of the women's triple jump at the U.S. Olympic Trials. (Nate Barrett/Oregon Daily Emerald)Chaunte Lowe performs a celebratory dance after a clearance in in the final of the women's high jump on Saturday, June 30, 2012 at the U.S. Olympic Team Trials at Hayward Field. (Rockne Andrew Roll/Oregon Daily Emerald)Chaunte Lowe asks for the crowd to start clapping before her high jump in the women's finals on Saturday, June 30, 2012. Lowe made the team by clearing a height of 2.01 meters. (Jeff Matarrese/Oregon Daily Emerald)Aries Merritt prepares to be interviewed after placing first in the finals of the men's 110-meter hurdles. (Nate Barrett/Oregon Daily Emerald)Aries Merritt (left) and Jason Richardson celebrate after placing first and second, respectively, in the finals of the men's 110-meter hurdles at the U.S. Olympic Trials. (Nate Barrett/Oregon Daily Emerald)

