
    
Produced by: Will Rubin/ Sreang “C” Hok
In 2003, the Michigan Wolverines – then BCS National Championship contenders – fell at Autzen Stadium, ending their title dreams. Four years later, the location was different but the script remained the same.
As in Eugene, Michigan was led by a high powered trio on offense with Heisman-contender Mike Hart at the forefront. The Wolverines started the year ranked number five in the country – the same position they held in 2003 – but tumbled from the polls after a shocking loss to Division II foe Appalachian State. Oregon came into the Big House (Michigan’s football stadium) with a solid returning core of players but unsure of how good they really were, but there was no doubt about the talented Ducks after handing the Wolverines a 39-7 dusting – their worst loss since 1968.
Michigan took an early 7-3 lead on their only scoring drive of the day, but the Ducks responded quickly as quarterback Dennis Dixon hooked up with Brian Paysinger for 85 of his 292 yards through the air. Unbeknownst to the crowd in Ann Arbor, Oregon was just getting started.
New offensive coordinator Chip Kelly pushed all the right buttons against Michigan’s powerful defense, spreading the field and allowing Dixon to pick his way down the field while opening holes for star running back Jonathan Stewart. Kelly even broke out a pair of “Statue of Liberty” plays: The first resulting in a 20 yard gain for Stewart and the second a nine yard touchdown for Dixon. 
After the shellacking, much of the focus was on the struggles of mighty Michigan and whether they would bounce back to salvage their season. It took a few more weeks for the nation to realize that Oregon could be that special team and indeed, the Ducks rose to #2 in the polls, and Dixon to the top of the Heisman Trophy race, before the injury bug caught up to the Ducks and sent the special ride crashing to a halt.
Related topics: Chip Kelly, Dennis Dixon, Jonathan Stewart, Michigan Wolverines, oregon ducks, Oregon Football
