

Following practice Wednesday, head coach Chip Kelly confirmed that two-deep rosters — and by extension, the Ducks’ starting quarterback — will be revealed Friday. The two-deep will ostensibly decide winners at other position battles, such as wide receiver, defensive back and kicker.
“We’ve had the same schedule for the last three years,” Kelly said with a smile. “We’ll send the two-deep out sometime on Friday.”
The Ducks’ upcoming sartorial choices dominated the rest of the news out of Oregon’s camp Wednesday, as Nike and the Oregon athletic department unveiled the Ducks’ new uniform set for the upcoming year. Like previous models, this year’s version looks sleek, stylish and fast. The not-so-major difference from past years is the shoulder-pad feathers, laid out front to back to emphasize speed and forward motion. But both Kelly and defensive coordinator Nick Aliotti had yet to see them.
Asked his favorite combination of uniform colors, Kelly was his usual self.
“Whatever we win in. 34 times I’ve liked them, six times I haven’t like them,” Kelly said, referring to his overall record as head coach.
Aliotti was more specific, saying he liked the “clean” look of the all-white jerseys with mallard green helmets.
***
Kelly also commended the effort at practice over the past few weeks, saying he didn’t have to remind many players of what’s on the line.
“Guys who have been here the last three years understand our success is because of our preparation. That doesn’t change,” Kelly said. “I think some people lose sight of that. You know, we win because we prepare.”
Such preparation isn’t lost on players fighting for a starting spot, like quarterbacks Marcus Mariota and Bryan Bennett. Following Tuesday’s practice, Mariota admitted this Thursday’s intra-team scrimmage would be a big “evaluation” of who would helm the offense — and The Register-Guard’s Rob Moseley reported Bryan Bennett agreed with Mariota regarding the importance of the scrimmage — but Mariota recognized the position battle “comes with the territory.”
Kelly was quick to point out the scrimmage wouldn’t be weighted too heavily, though.
“There’s not going to be some horse that’s a 100-to-one shot that’s going to show up tomorrow, and we’ll go, ‘holy smokes,’” Kelly said.
The Ducks will begin to prepare for Arkansas State on Saturday, and by then every player should know their order on the roster.
Related topics: Bryan Bennett, Chip Kelly, Marcus Mariota, Nick Aliotti, Oregon Football
